---
publish: false
---

# ndc2014


http://vimeo.com/ndcoslo/videos


##Doc Norton - The Technical Debt Trap 260254705
The danger occures when athe dept is not repayed. Every minute spent on not-quite-right code counts as interest in that dept.
Technical dept is good
  - repid delivery, time to market
  - heps learnig, indication of learning
People are confused the dept methaphor with the ide that you could write code poorly.
Code must be clean enough tobe able to refactor! (always) - Otto: so Test are there...., well tested :)
Ask yourself:
- is the code clean?
- its the code tested
- is ther a learning objective or event
- is ther a plan for payback
-is the business truly informed
I any of these are missing it is not technical dept. It is a mess!!!
Remember quality os your responsiblity.
NEVEL ask permission to do job correctly
When monitoring complexity p track trends not points. (exact values are meaningless but tends are meaningfull)

##Brendan Forster - 10 Things Ive Learned From Doing OSS 260254576
. Read other people code
. there are lots of ways to collaborate. e.g donations, Documentation
. Scratch your own itch  
  if you have considerable code you should share it, onsider your contract.
.  ...
  you are not your code
. 
. words are hard
. be familiar with software licenses
. friction sucks, Make it easy for me to hack on your code.
. "done" vs "dead"

##Enrico Campidoglio - Why no code reviews 260248781
problem #1 is about Ego.  EGO=1/Knowledge. The less the knowledge the greater the EGO.
Problem 2: you == your code
Problem 3: Fear of making mistakes. Fear of let colleges sse my mistakes
Problem 4: Culture o(lack of it) "you are wrong".... See Ego!
Do not review the person. REview the code. Do not speak in absolut. Foos are speaking absolute.
Time: it need time.
NB: Good diagrama bout productivity of a geek
What do you get from code review?
  - code quality goes up
  - bugs go down, espcially fund during code review,.
  - sharing knowledge
MB: not even checking hanges when upating project so he could not learni from others development effort.
when you know that someone is wathcing you will take care of you code more. "The Big Brother EEffect"
It can eager ambition because yo want to impress your programmer fellow.
Give constructive feedback. 
In a project everyone is in the same boat. (Sometimes I do not have the feeling - Otto -  But we have to trust  people that they are doing their bests)
Kind fo review
1. Formal code review. Most bugs found
2. Over the wsholder code review. Less former. Less bug to be found
3. Async code review. hapopen async tothe code written. "distributed". IT happend offline. Good compromize in nr of bugs found and time.
Tools:
- Gerrit, Diffy
ruleS:
1.review small portions of code at a time. One commit one logical change.
1. keep and follow a checklist
1. keep under 1 hour

##Aral Balkan - Free is a Lie 260249022
Interesting and shocking conspiracy theory how googe/facbook is rooling our life and data...

##Peter Smith - It doesnt work like that in enterprise 260248173
Definituion of Enterprice development
Problems
Constrainted process and practices (sometime the lack of it)
  As long as a sub-optimal processis profitable, it will be allowed to continue (Otto: so you(!) have to prove that you chnage is more profitable)
  Take Control
    Dont stop being lay developer (automate)
    If you tru had enough there will be ways in whihc uou can speed yourself up
    Consider commiting your own time (!!!!!)
    Keep innivating, and do not give up.
Planning for the future
  Mpost enterprice is planning for the future to some extend
  Fire-fighting ismuch more common than working proactively
  Sometime there is no management of technical dept atl all
  it can be verry difficult to communicate the true value of writing/refactoring code to be loose coupled and maitainable
  Take control
    Start the conversation! - Yes it is politics...
    Lead by Example
    ask your architect or development manager what the `self-life` of tyour software is (Otto ????)
Rejection of industry standard knowledge
  Comanies tend to shy away from buyy to things they perceive as teny
  Individuals often try to dins the cleverest solution and ignore the simple one right in from the them,
  Most teams should be able to react quickly to client demands regardless of their processes of failing in other areas.
  Take control
    Share your knowledge
    Demonstrate (cool) usefull things
    Know the _why_ as wekk as the _what_ and the _how_
    Helpo people to find the art and the joy in coding
Management and people
  Developers ofter trated as liability rather than a resource
  Staff are often "promoted" based on length of service rather than proficiency and suitability for the role
  People with responsiblity tend to subconsciously protect their position and their interest
  Take controll
    Remin true to yourself and uphold your own standard (be proud of it)
    Say no
    The golden rule: " Am I still learning skills that will be relvant to me in my future career?"
What is the solution?


##Scott Allen - Building Directives for AngularJS 260249252.mp4
Meg kell tanulnom AngularJS-t Mese nincs.
Demosntrated how to create custom tags into html and have some behaviour around it.

##Doc Norton - Agile Metrics - Velocity is NOT the Goal 260249179.mp4
VElicity is not a really good indicator of team performance and health
The only important: The which is measured will improve... at cost. (Otto: So the only meaningfull measurement is business value.)
Any objsevert statisticsal regularity will fail as soon as it is used as a target.
When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be  a good measure....an unintrnded result, contrary to interests of the incentive makers.
!!!!Not finished yet!!!





